Annoucement for Open Science + Research Software Summer School at UIUC in July/August (#52)
si2-urssi/website: content/blog/2024-05-20-summer-software-open-science-school.md

---
title: "Applications now open for a Summer School in Open Science + Research Software Engineering"
date: 2024-05-20
author: "Madicken Munk"
---

> __Do you want your science, research, and software to be open and accessible? Do you use or develop software in your research? Do you have some basic skills would like to build on and expand them?__

Reviewer: ```suggestion
__Do you want your science, research, and software to be open and accessible? Do you use or develop software in your research? Do you have some basic skills and would like to build on and expand them?__
```

If this sounds like you, then you might be interested in the upcoming Summer School in Open Science and Research Software Engineering. 

> In July 2024, we will be hosting a five day workshop on open science and research software engineering at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In July 2024, we will be hosting a five-day workshop on open science and research software engineering at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign. 
```

> This workshop complements previous summer and winter schools hosted by URSSI on research software engineering. 

Reviewer: maybe add links?

At this school, students will hone their open science skills in addition to building their skillset in research software engineering.  

This is aimed at early-career researchers, particularly graduate students and postdocs, who are familiar with basic skills such as interacting with the Unix shell, version control using Git, and Python programming, and would like to learn more about best practices for developing research software and leveraging their research software to practice and enhance their own open science. 

> ## Target Audience

Reviewer: perhaps say something about being open to all disciplines (if this is right), including humanities and areas that aren't considered "science"?

Reviewer: Or maybe this is just for "science"?

Author: Thank you so much for pointing this out! I added language saying that all domains are welcome and that we are targeting people who use or develop software in their research.

> Ideal candidates for this workshop are science practitioners that user or develop software in their research and want to share their software in their community of practice, or are contributing to other research projects. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ideal candidates for this workshop are science practitioners who use or develop software in their research and want to share their software in their community of practice, or are contributing to other research projects. 
```

These practitioners want to make their research open, accessible, and reproducible by implementing open science best practices in addition to building and contributing to research software. 

> To get the most benefit from this workshop, we expect students to be familiar with the Unix shell, Python, and git, at the level taught at a Software Carpentry Workshop. 

Reviewer: maybe link to SC?

## Format and topics

This five-day workshop will enable learners to hone their skills in developing sustainable research software, practicing open science in their workflow, and contributing to their communities of practice. Topcs covered will include:  

*   The Ethos of Open Science
*   Open Tools and Resources
*   Open Data 
*   Open Results 
*   Software design and modularity
*   Collaborative software development via Git+GitHub
*   Software testing in Python
*   Code review
*   Packaging and distributing Python software
*   Documentation
*   Software, Data, and Documentation Licensing
*   Reproducibility

> The school will consist of lectures on these topics along with open hacking time to allow participants to practice the concepts covered in the lectures. To facilitate the hands-on experience, each participant will bring a project to work on throughout the course for applying these concepts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The school will consist of lectures on these topics along with open hacking time to allow participants to practice the concepts covered in the lectures. To facilitate the hands-on experience, each participant should bring a project to work on throughout the course for applying these concepts.
```

Reviewer: or "must"?

Author: What do you think about "is strongly encouraged to"?

Reviewer: sure. Maybe also say this earlier, such as by line 16, to emphasize it

## Logistics

*   **Dates**: July 29 - August 02, 2024

> *   **Location**: Urbana-Champaign, IL - [University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign](https://illinois.edu)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   **Location**: Champaign-Urbana, IL - [University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign](https://illinois.edu)
```

Author: Do you think switching the order of the cities is confusing? Especially if it's the other order in the school name?

Reviewer: yes, but it's not our fault :)

Author: Ok! I changed it to Urbana, as all of the lessons will be held on the Urbana side of Wright St. 🙂

> *   **Cost**: Free (supported by a grant from the NASA Transform to Open Science Training call)

Reviewer: again, maybe add a link?

*   Travel support is available for non-local participants

## Important Dates

*   **Registration deadline**: 06 June 2024

> *   **Notification**: June 10

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   **Notification**: 10 June
```

Reviewer: or consistently the other way in this line and previous one

---
title: "Applications now open for a Summer School in Open Science + Research Software Engineering"
date: 2024-05-20
author: "Madicken Munk"
---

__Do you want your science, research, and software to be open and accessible? Do you use or develop software in your research? Do you have some basic skills and would like to build on and expand them?__

If this sounds like you, then you might be interested in the upcoming Summer School in Open Science and Research Software Engineering. 
In July 2024, we will be hosting a five-day workshop on open science and research software engineering at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign. 

This workshop complements previous [summer](https://urssi.us/blog/2024/02/29/applications-now-open-for-the-2024-urssi-summer-school-in-research-software-engineering/) and [winter](https://urssi.us/blog/2023/10/31/applications-now-open-for-the-2024-urssi-winter-school-in-research-software-engineering/) schools hosted by URSSI on research software engineering. 
At this school, students will hone their open science skills in addition to building their skillset in research software engineering. 

> To that end, we strongly encourage attendees to consider a particular software project to apply learning principles to during the school. 

Reviewer 2: The existing software lessons sort of rely on people coming with something to work on - so you may want to make bringing a project (or multiple things!) mandatory and not just strongly suggested

These practitioners want to make their research open, accessible, and reproducible by implementing open science best practices in addition to building and contributing to research software. 

To get the most benefit from this workshop, we expect students to be familiar with the Unix shell, Python, and git, at the level taught at a [Software Carpentry](https://software-carpentry.org/) Workshop. 

## Format and topics

This five-day workshop will enable learners to hone their skills in developing sustainable research software, practicing open science in their workflow, and contributing to their communities of practice. Topcs covered will include:  

*   The Ethos of Open Science
*   Open Tools and Resources
*   Open Data 
*   Open Results 
*   Software design and modularity
*   Collaborative software development via Git+GitHub
*   Software testing in Python
*   Code review
*   Packaging and distributing Python software
*   Documentation
*   Software, Data, and Documentation Licensing
*   Reproducibility

> The school will consist of lectures on these topics along with open hacking time to allow participants to practice the concepts covered in the lectures. To facilitate the hands-on experience, each participant is strongly encouraged to bring a project to work on throughout the course for applying these concepts.

Reviewer 2: same comment as above - I recommend making bringing a project or things to work on mandatory (and part of the application)
